TARGET PC BOOT DRIVE

AUTHOR: Mark Gotthelf
DATE: 6/28/19

The target PC uses a USB to boot into the Simulink Real Time system. The target
PC does not have a harddrive outside of this USB and will not boot without the USB.
Ensure that the USB is inserted into the target PC prior to turning the target PC
on. As of this writing only the USB ports on the back of the target PC worked for
this purpose. If you are unsure if the USB is working properly as the Simulink
Real Time interface is not appearing try using a USB with a light and ensure that
the light on the USB is turning on. 
 
Depending on the version of Matlab being used the boot drive may need to change.
To create a new boot drive follow the steps below. 

1. Connect the target PC and host PC together via an ethernet crossover cable
2. Launch the Command Prompt from the Start Menu of the host computer
3. In the Command Prompt window type 'ipconfig' and press enter
4. Record the 'IPv4 Address' and the 'Subnet Mask'
5. Launch Matlab on the host PC
6. In the Command Window of Matlab type 'xpcexplr' and press enter
7. Once the new window has opened under 'Targets' on the left hand side of the 
		screen, select MATLAB Session > TargetPC1 > Properties
		a) If TargetPC1 is not an option choose the 'Add Target' option to 
				add a target PC
8. Under 'Host-to-Targe communication' tab type in the IPv4 Address you recorded
		earlier under the IP address BUT increment the last 3 digits by 1
		Ex: If the IPv4 address was 169.254.236.159, you would type in 
		169.254.236.160
9. Then type in the Subnet Mask you recorded earlier into the Subnet Mask slot
		exactly how you recorded it
10. Type in 22222 for the Port number and leave the Gateway blank
11. Select Auto for the Target Driver
12. Select PCI for the Bus Type
13. Under 'Target Settings' choose the following settings
		a) USB Support
		b) Graphics mode
		c) Model size - 1MB
		d) RAM size - Auto
14. Insert a USB stick into the host computer. Ensure that the USB stick is blank
		and formatted in one of the following formats
			FAT-12
			FAT-16
			FAT-32
15. Under the 'Boot configuration' tab select the Boot Mode 'Removable Disk' 
16. Press the 'Create boot disk' option. 
17. Select your USB drive and follow the on screen instructions. Once these finish
		the USB boot drive is ready to be used on the targe PC