CONNECTING THE MOTOR CONTROLLERS TO THE MOTOR USING EPOS STUDIO

AUTHOR: Mark Gotthelf
DATE: 6/27/17
Created with EPOS Studio 2.00 Revision 2

CREATING A CONFIG FILE
The motors need to be connected to EPOS Studio in order to function.
The installer for EPOS Studio should be found in this folder and called 
'EPOS_Positioning_Controller.exe'. If the installer can not be found you should
be able to download it from maxon motors' website. 

The motors need a configuration to connect to EPOS studio. 
The current configuration file is called 'config.pjm'.
To generate a new configuration file follow these steps:
1. Open EPOS Studio and turn on the motor controllers 
2. Once EPOS Studio has started a window should display 'Step 1: Introduction'
		If this window does not display go to File > New Project
3. Click the option 'EPOS2 Project' then next
4. Name your project and choose the file directory then click finish
5. Connect the motor controller that has the CAN connection coming in from 
		the target PC to the USB of the host computer.
6. Click on Extras > Device Catalog
7. Under 'Communication' tab on the left side choose 'USB'  then click 
		'Add Communication' 
8. Under the 'Communication' tab on the left hand side you should see 
		a file tree that has Local Host > USB > USB0
9. Right click 'USB0' then left click 'Scanning Device' 
10. On the new 'Scanning Devices' window press 'Start Scanning' on the 
		lower left hand corner. 
11. 'EPOS2 [Node 1]' should appear when the scanning ends. Click on this line 
		thenb press 'OK' 
12. Under the 'Communication' tab on the left side of the screen you should now 
		see 'EPOS2 [Node 1] and 'CAN' on the tree. 
13. Right click on 'EPOS2 [Node 1] and then click 'Connect' 
14. An error may appear. Clear the error on the bottom of the screen by right 
		clicking on error and then choosing 'Clear'
15. Right click on 'CAN' under the 'Communication' tab on the left side of the 
		screen then choose 'Scanning Devices'
16. On the new 'Scanning Devices' window press 'Start Scanning' on the 
		lower left hand corner. 
17. 'EPOS2 [Node 2]' should appear when the scanning ends. Click on this line 
		thenb press 'OK' 
18. Under the 'Communication' tab on the left side of the screen you should now 
		see 'EPOS2 [Node 8] on the tree. 
19. Right click on 'EPOS2 [Node 1] and then click 'Connect' 
20. Choose the 'Wizards' tab on the left side of the screen.
21. At the top of the 'Wizards tab' under Device Selection ensure that 
		'EPOS2 [Node 1] is choosen. 
22. Choose 'Startup Wizard'
23. Once the new dialog appears click the 'Show Getting Started' tab and read the 
		included documentation. The motors are EC motors for reference
24. Follow the steps in the Getting Started Guide to finish the Startup Wizard
25. Once the Startup Wizard is complete choose the 'Regulation Tuning' tab on 
		the left hand side of the screen. 
26. Once the new window opens choose 'Auto Tuning' then clock 'Next' 
27. Click 'Start' then wait for tuning to finish, then click 'Finish'
28. At the top of the 'Wizards tab' under Device Selection choose 
		'EPOS2 [Node 2] 
29. Repeat steps 22-27
30. The motors are now configured. Save this file and open it whenever you 
		are going to use the motors. 

USING EPOS STUDIO AND SIMULINK
To access the motors in Simulink you will need to set the motors to current mode 
in EPOS studio. Follow these steps to set up the controller in current mode. 
These steps will need to be preformed each time the motor controllers are turned on
1. Open EPOS Studio and turn on the motor controllers. 
2. In EPOS Studio open the configuration file that was made for the motors. 
3. Connect the motor controller that has the CAN connection coming in from 
		the target PC to the USB of the host computer.
4. Connect to the motors in EPOS studio by going to 'Extras > Connect All' 
5. Go to the 'Tools' tab on the left side of the screen. 
6. Choose the 'Current Mode' selection from the Tools tab
7. Enable EPOS studio on the lower left hand side of the new window by 
	clicking the tab that says 'disabled'
8. At the top left of the new window click the tab that says 'Current Mode'
9. The motors are now ready to be controlled by Simulink. 

CHECKING THE CAN SETTINGS
Simulink uses a CAN connection to talk with the motor controllers. You can check 
these settings by using the CANopen Wizard tool. 
1. Open EPOS Studio and turn on the motor controllers. 
2. In EPOS Studio open the configuration file that was made for the motors. 
3. Connect the motor controller that has the CAN connection coming in from 
		the target PC to the USB of the host computer.
4. Connect to the motors in EPOS studio by going to 'Extras > Connect All' 
5. Go to the 'Wizards' tab on the left side of the screen.
6. Choose the 'CANopen Wizard' option
7. Follow the steps and record the PDO settings you choose for each controller. 

To test the connection follow these additional steps
8. Open the simulink model CAN_test.slx
9. Ensure that the settings choosen match the settings in the CANopen Wizard option. 
10. If you are unsure if the settings match rerun the CANopen Wizard and ensure
		that the numbers shown in the model match the numbers in the wizard
11. Build the model 
12. Follow the above instruction set to put the motors in controller mode. 
12. Start the model
13. You should see that the motors move back and forth. If the motors do not move
		double check the CAN settings and that the motors are in Current Mode. 

